you
[Music]
from Gomer Pyle USMC to mash the United
States military has proven to be a great
setting for hit television still under
the acronym here stands for Judge
Advocate General hit the airwaves in
1995 it hardly looked like a smash
ratings almost song the battleship in
its first season the action drama ranked
a measely 79th overall Jags future
looked uncertain however with a second
tour the series grew to become one of
the quietest pop-culture success stories
of the new millennium thanks to its
alluring stars David James
Aled and Katherine Bell not to mention a
heavy dose of military rallies dragged
sailed for the 10 seasons and spawned
even bigger spin-offs you're watching
another episode of how they changed and
let's hoverboard and take a look at some
things you might not know about the tag
it was canceled after its first season
yep in the spring of 1996 NBC pulled the
plug on the struggling show the network
had moved it from Saturdays to
Wednesday's midseason he had it still
could not succeed against completion
like the Jeff Foxworthy show and Beverly
Hills 90210 CBS picked up the canceled
jag the following season unlikely still
sends nbc's thank you cards jacques
eventually became the foundation of CBS
it sparked the third biggest franchise
in TV history
overall the Jag universe is responsible
for 35 total seasons of scripted network
television NCIS 14 seasons panel of jag
and in turn launched the spin-offs NCIS
Los Angeles a seasons and NCIS New
Orleans three seasons Americans are
currently quite hungry for needed crime
the Law & Order franchise is larger with
47 total seasons while all my children
had 37 seas
NCIS began as a backdoor pilot on jag
NCIS kicked off in 2003 with the eighth
season jag episode Ice Queen which
introduced Kip's Mark Harmon Abby and
the crew the story continued in the
following episode meltdown the show
recycled footage from hit movies to save
money this paramount production tapped
into the archive of studio footage some
of the naval action scenes were taken
from all the films like Top Gun flight
of the intruder clear and present danger
in the hand for the Red October during
the last half of season 8 Katherine Bell
was shown mostly behind a desk holding
something in front of her because she
was pregnant her character pretended to
be pregnant during the last couple of
episodes of the eighth season then threw
away the passing during the season 9
premiere because Belle had given birth
during the summer hiatus prior to Fame
David James Alert worked in a belt
Factory
Aled grew up in an Ontario farming
community as a teen he rocked out in the
handful of punk and new wave bands with
names like the assassinators at the age
of 17 he bailed for Toronto to make it
big I was working at about factory and
living in these boarding house he
explained it was filmed aboard really as
Navy ships in the primary ship used for
filming was the USS forrestal TV 59 a
good deal of the Navy's nimitz-class
carriers also pop up during the course
of the series including the USS Saratoga
he received a prize and USS John F
Kennedy
however the ships were often given
fictional names like the reprisal in the
Seahawk
Catherine Bell appeared on game shows in
the early 90s in 1990 Kathy Bell
appeared as a contestant on match games
and described herself as a message
therapist that same year she turned up
on a short-lived NBC reboot off to tell
the truth playing one of the imposters
it was the first Korean credit for
avatar stars and more thinkin the Aussie
actor earned his first screen credit and
boomerang part 1 playing a seaman and
suspect in the Royal Australian Navy
back in 2005 her plans for a Jag
Sandiego basically a West Coast team for
the series a concept was introduced in
the season 10 backdoor pilot episode but
the series never got made a series
revolving around and naval team in
California wouldn't happen until NCIS
Los Angeles the first spin-off of the
show's spinoff MC is the final took
everyone by surprise
including the creators and the crew
you'd think that after 10 seasons Jack
would get a heads-up that the end was
near
however created Donald P Belisario was
only given a couple of weeks notice that
the show would not return writer
scrambled to wrap up the ongoing will
they won't they romantic story and
finally bring together alert and vows
characters I don't know whether anybody
keeps record on this kind of stuff but
I'd bet that jag leads the TV universe
in at least one category most episodes
produced after cancellation I'm not
talking about CBS's cancellation of the
series which signs off with the episode
number 227 I'm talking about NBS is
cancellation of jag 14 years ago the
peacock Network only air 21 of the 22
episodes that were produced wait and
then NBC President Warren Littlefield
axed the show because he doubted it
would survive a second season something
he told creator and executive producer
Don Daly sorry and the folks at
Paramount
early 1996 they felt they could put it
somewhere else little feel sad at the
time we suspected it would be CBS and
said that's fine they'll had go do that
maybe you'll get a longer life and maybe
it can work over there and the time and
BC was riding high and little filled
like everyone who has run and be seen
since he was ousted in 1998 was more
than a bit arrogant he made no effort to
hide his disdain for CBS's decision to
pick up his cast off shar and put it on
the mid-season slate for the 1996 1997
season that I thought was kind of
curious littlefield sad but that's now
their decision not mine and quite
frankly didn't look to be a great
decision at first airing and Friday
night's rating were marginal and the
third season was by no means assured but
CBS chief Dane Leslie Moonves who by the
way still running CBS years after
Littlefield left NBC stuck where the
show moved to Tuesday and watched as it
started mowing down the competition by
the end of the 1997-1998 season jag was
regularly winning its timeslot against
competition like home improvement on ABC
and Mad About You on NBC heading to
NBC's pain was the fact that Littlefield
had convinced Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt
to return for another season of mad the
then almost unheard-of salary of
$1,000,000 per episode only to have the
show crushed by Jack in the ratings jag
meanwhile not only survived but
prospered through 202 episodes after NBC
cancelled it
oh the ratings have tailed off in recent
seasons particularly since the move to
Fridays two years ago to make room for
its spin-off and CAS which continues to
prosper on Tuesdays but Jack is one of
the shows that turns the Bears from a
ratings to a med into a ratings
powerhouse and while network television
is a catheral business if ever there was
one
Universal company are indeed grateful
[Music]
and while you might argue there is some
life left in the show the lisara even
pitched a sort of jag the next
generation with characters other than
harm David James Elliot and Mack
Katherine Val fans are getting
well-deserved for another episode to
savor an episode that will address
attraction between harm and Mack that's
always sort of bubbled below the surface
given all the shows that leave fans
hanging that really is a big gift of use
in that's all for now don't forget to
leave a like comment and subscribe for
more awesome reviews take care friends
[Music]
you